The campaign is going to start in a neutral setting, The Myst Walker Inn on the island of Naseal's Tears. As this is a neutral port a lot of people go there to find work and many different powers use it as a neutral meeting ground to hash out deals. Since we are starting at level 5 I would like a little bit of info on who you were previously  involved with in the islands, if you're still on good terms with them or if you are someone who was not affiliated with a specific group then what your motivations are. If people want to come from the same type of background or already have pre-established relationships that is cool too. This is more of an open ended story than I've tried to tell in the past so the more I get from you guys the better it will be. 

The Islands

Sigurn: One of the four Islands of the Admiralty. Home to the great city of Dianon a land dedicated to the arts, magic and study. Lord Admiral Talios Doren oversees a Laissez faire society where intellectual and artistic achievements are valued above all things. Focused on honing their crafts and perfecting even battle as an art they became a formidable if not chaotic force to deal with in the Admiralty. Few laws are enforced outside of those that prevent people from directly harming or endangering others.

Zorn: One of the four Islands of the Admiralty. Zorn is an island not born of the mysts nor of true natural happenstance. Once a small tree that defiantly sat atop a spec of land it was embraced by a sect of druids known as the Children of the Deep Witch who grew the small tree into a massive plant (Now known as the Witch's Spire) that could be spotted from any end of the island as it now exists. The very roots of this tree were formed into the massive island and became the home of these druids. Lead by the Archdruid (Now Admiral) Aleena Azar their society welcomes all those who respect nature and the bargains of the With of the Deeps Azrila. Their allegiance to an often feared goddess and their mastery of the tides have granted them considerable power on the seas.

Rynir: One of the four Islands of the Admiralty. An industrious society built on scientific, alchemical and to a smaller extent arcane research. Lead by the mysterious gnome; Admiral Zanya Ashcroft, they seek to break down the world to it's very components and discern the true nature of the mysts. Their fierce mastery of machinery has granted them a small but extremely powerful fleet of ships that make their relatively smaller numbers something to be reckoned with.  While highly militaristic the people of the island also revere Zanya as an immortal leader as she has seemingly lived an unnaturally long life for a gnome. Extensive mines and forges run through out the island as they in recent years have begun to produce the first instances of gunpowder and cannons seen within the islands.

Orzma's Rest: A smaller island with a sparse population. This island is rumored to be the remains of a massive titan that was meant to lay siege to the mortal races of the world during the war of the New Gods. Few things can grow here and the few people that choose to live upon this strange island claim to be blessed by angelic grace. Orzma's Rest is no easy place to scratch out a living given the numerous dangers that dwell upon it.

Ezmir:  A jungle island with many tribal peoples and exotic goods. Though there is an array of tribes upon the island they are loosely aligned into a Tribunal and lead by a Tabaxi named Washing Shores. As a representative for the island she has come to an agreement with the Admiralty which offers protection in exchange for the exotic goods that the island holds. The Admiralty considers the island friendly and more civilized than that of the mysterious rabble that dwell upon Jikayus.

Folstoff: A fertile island that grows many basic crops and foodstuffs that are traded to the larger islands in the region for important goods that they would not otherwise be able to obtain. A common joke among the Admiralty is that the rich eat from Ezmir and the common man eats because of Folstoff. Because of this almost the entire island consists of farmers and workers. Folstoff has few fishermen or even boats. The entire island features a single port simply named Folstoff Port where traders from the other islands come to unload goods and load produce to return home.

The Aerie: The Aerie is surrounded by dangerous rock formations and shallows that grant it a natural protection from incursion by sea. It is for this reason and by the protection of the great Gryphon God Ixion that the Aerie remains a seat of independent power among the Mystbourne Isles. It is said at the peak of the Aerie the god Ixion sleeps only to awaken to protect the Aerie from any great threat. The island itself is mostly only accesible by the gryphon riders that call this mountain home. In recent years they have given passage for small craft to enter a rather precarious port on the southern portion of the mountain where they engage in trade. The people of the Aerie value freedom above all things. Little is known as to their true inner workings.

Jikayus: A dangerous jungle island that is inhabited only by a few brave explorers and companies foolishly looking to unearth what ancient secrets it may hide. It is said that the island is inhabited mainly by Yuan-Ti and their cults. though others have reported seeing elven structures and ruins amongst the isle. There have been some accounts of a ongoing conflict that rages on the island but only those Yuan-Ti or Jungle Elves that are born there may actually know about it. Outsiders are often treated to a quick demise by either population.

CogWhim: An island of ruins known to scholars as Cogwhim. Researches from Sigurn and Rynir have invested a great deal of time researching the strange and almost alien ruins that can be unearthed in what appears to have once been a great civilization. Some outposts of the Admiralty have been set up on this mostly barren and cold island. The only true natives to this island are a few nomadic tribes of Asimar that keep themselves and offer little in aid to the foreigners that scare away the scarce game that they hunt.

Apocrypha's Folly: A small island that once was the seat of power of a now dead civilization. Or so the stories go. It is said that it was upon this island that the Angel of War Apocrypha met her end during the war of the New Gods. Uninhabitable this island is said to be a graveyard of the past but curious adventurers and those interested in history will visit it to see the remains of the great angel herself which remain to this day.

Falkreath: Falkreath is home to the Falkreath Transport  & Adventuring Company. A stout industry of steady deckhands and refined sailors.  Their independent ships can be hired by almost anyone for the right amount of coin to take on any dangerous route. Many of their daring captains are even willing to take on contracts to dive into the mysts themselves. Many of the people of Falkreath are known to be worshipers of The Wayfairer and follow the winds of adventure to what fortunes the sea may hold.

Yorv: A curious island noted for their curious people. Many creatures of strange origin find their way to the island of Yorv. Often called the Island of the Beastmen it is home to those who might otherwise feel out of place among the rest of those in the islands. Their dealings with others are often scarce as they tend to keep to themselves. Yorv is welcoming to outsiders that seek refuge from the turmoil and ill fates that happen to people on the open oceans. Their cities are a strange mix of architectures and cultures that have found themselves happy to be left alone.

Elosia: Elosia was once the seat of the short lived Republic. With a large population, many sturdy war ships and influence over smaller islands it had banned together with islands once under the rule of the Order of Aporos to push back against the order. Once ruled by King Vonteeri Elosia XII his gambit at creating a more egalitarian Republic of islands fell to an ill fate due to their dark dealings with the ancient god known as the Faceless One. Their campaign lead to the destruction of the Elosia bloodline and Elosia's people left to pick up the pieces. Proudly the major cities of Elosia formed a council and pursued the dream of their king within their own island. The dawn of the Republic of Elosia has begun making it a politically tumultuous time on the island. The island itself is capable of sustaining itself and builds up fleets merely for protection.

Naseal's Tears: An independent island sworn to the New God Naseal. This island is a neutral port to all people and factions. Often the seat of negotiations between feuding islands and haven to the weary. The island features a large main port where one kind find any number of vessels from all over the islands. Whether they be soldiers, dignitaries, traders, or explorers all find respite on Naseal's Tears. A large cathedral known as the Sanctuary of Salt is built into a mountain range connected to a vast network of salt mines. The island is loosely ruled by the church of Naseal and the Arch Bishop Erin Ishkandir. Though the people live and work mostly independently from the church they seek out the priests and priestess of Naseal to help resolve disputes through abritration. It is said that because of their role between the islands and among their own people the clergy of Naseal are courtly and adept in debate.

Paron Isles: The Paron isles recently came together in an agreement to work as one to be a member of the failed Republic. Now the freshly minted territory finds itself in disarray under the leadership of their first King Alan Pellar. A primarily human populated set of islands Paron is home to many skilled craftsmen. Though not rich in resources the skill of many of their tradesmen is so renown that often they are imported materials for the sole purpose of crafting fine pieces of furniture, armor and the alike. It is this spirit of creation that keeps the islands in unison during these times despite the fledgling leadership of their young King. If you were to ask the people of their monarch they often refer to him as "that poor boy".

Burez: A frigid land inhabited by hardy folk that are seen most often as a menace to others. Unafraid to raid the ships of traders who dare to sail their waters they have often found themselves in conflict with any number of the islands. Due to the ice flows and difficult waters that surround their island the Burezian Raiders have not been directly dealt with in some time. Far enough away from more serious threats they prey upon weaker islands and have been known to scavenge the remains of the Myst Plague Isle.

Myst Plague Isle: In the war of the New Gods Myst Plague Isle was known as Isindyr. A large civilization of high elves that practiced deep arcane magics. This island was the first to meet the wrath of Om the Angel of Creation and the father of the Court of Angels, or as many refer to them now, the Old Gods. It is said that Om's Fury broke the heavens and crashed into the Capitol city of Isindyr shattering the very land beneath it and sunk it into the ocean. From the wound driven into the island the Myst itself began to pour over it. A cursed and unforgiving place it is a feared land by all but the people of Burez.

Ez'War: A small set of islands that found itself the primary battle ground between the Order of Aporos and the Republic. Having had joined the Republic and it's strategic set of fortresses it met wrath on both ends. The people of Ez'War were devastated by the war and what remains of them is lead by a former mercenary captain named William Quinn. Since the fallout of the war he has given the people of Ez'War a new path. Stalwart veterans of war they formed the Ez'War Defense Company. A small fleet for hire they will sail under any banner for the right price. Their resilience has earned them the respect of the neighboring isles and their small fleet is seen as extremely valuable.

Kross: Another smaller set of islands that did not meet as terrible a fate as Ez'War. The isles of Kross provided little in military support for the Republic and in the end sold out Republic ships to the Order of Aporos. Lead by a group known as the Kross Consortium they have earned a reputation of being underhanded but adept in the arts of smuggling and subterfuge. The people of Kross are said to not be trusted but often people are unaware that someone hails form Kross or that they are affiliated with the Consortium due to their highly secretive nature.

Serpents's Heart: Said to be the last bastion of the Dragons in the Mystbourne Isles few people brave their waters as dragons and wyverns are often seen in these areas. Said to be ruled by the Chromatic Court the island also is home to large settlements of Dragonborn and other servants of the Court. Some Dragonborn escape this land and tell tales of the Court, the infighting of the dragons and their clutches and that the rest of the islands should be fearful should the court ever actually agree upon something.

Marzul: Marzul was another member island of the failed republic which provided a great deal of goods to the island of Elosia as well as many ships. During the war their fleets were decimated and the trade princes that once ruled Marzul found themselves on the wrong side of history as the people of Marzul rose against them. A short civil war broken out and the trade princes were laid to rest. Marzul now finds itself a hodge podge of various trading companies that deal in all manner of specialized goods. In an agreement with the Order of Aporos they no longer have a military fleet and deal only in trade. In doing so the Isle of Cinders grants them access to some of their fertile volcanic lands. In Marzul many people see the Gavaunt Trading Company as the primary source of wealth and power as it has become to most successful in their dealings with the Order.

Isle of Cinders: An island born from volcanic activity some time ago it now is a rich and fertile landscape home to the Order of Aporos. The Order once spread it's influence across the eastern islands which lead to the creation of the Republic and a long war between The Order and the islands they once controlled. Though victorious in the war it cost the Order a great deal and they have since withdrawn from militaristic conquest to focus on instead proselytizing the other islands and preaching the word of Aporos. Lead by Pontifex Luther the Island is home to people of many faiths. It is an island where all citizens are expected to serve in the military and membership to the Church of Aporos grants you a great deal of social mobility. Land is communally owned by the Church and Citizens of the Island act in accordance to their creeds.

Myst Reach: Little is known about this island other than a long time ago it was inhabited by people and one day the mysts overtook it. Unlike other islands that are enveloped by the mysts it has somehow remained.

Kraken's Call: An island dangerously set on the border of the mysts and said to be protected by an ancient Kraken. This is the seat of a Pirate Queen named Lady Lorelei who was rumored to have subdued a Kraken herself. The Myst Fleet sails from their harbors and wreaks havoc on any and all vessels they choose. Though attempts have been made to crack the defenses of this mysterious island no excursion has survived. Their pirates sail boldly hoisting a grey flags and grey sails depicting a kraken upon them and are said to be as dangerous as the mysts themselves rolling over your ships.

 Old Gods

Om: The Angel of Creation and the father of the Court of Angels. He was said to be the first to breath life into the Old Gods. He considered all the others in the court to be his children. In the war against the New Gods he was betrayed by his son Ignis which threw the court into chaos. Om represents Order and Creation and is often symbolized by a humanoid figure with angelic wings wearing a crown of light.

Ozmat: A titanic creation of Om that was one of the few members of the court that itself was not an angel. The god of destruction was said to have consumed entire islands that once existed as punishment for the mortal races turning their back on Om. Ozmat's sign is that of a ruined castle.

Apocrypha: The Angel of War and first daughter of Om. Many knew her as the Angel of Executions as she strictly obeyed the demands of her father to was over those who sinned against the Court with her armies. She was slain in combat by one of the New Gods who would later become known as The Wayfairer. Despite her affiliation with Om many still make pilgrimage to her resting place and hold tournaments in her honor as a fierce and loyal combatant. Apocrypha's symbol is that of a burning blade with a halo of five stars above it.

Vanguard: The Angel of Protection. Meant to protect the fabled City of Angels little is known of Vanguard other than he was dutiful and never left his charge once his father fell. Refusing to betrayed the oath he made to protect their home he is still revered by some as a god of Duty and Honor. Vanguade is symbolized with a shield that has a single angelic feather inscribed into it.

Ignis: The Angel of Mercy. Ignis is revered by many humans, elves and dwarves as a kind Angel that sought to protect the mortal races from the irrational anger of his father. Choosing mortals over his father's will he was banished from the Court of Angels. It is said that he pleaded with his kin to realize some greater truth that they refused to see. To this day though many feel his influence in the world his true whereabouts are unknown. He is symbolized by an outstretched hand.

Kalis: The Angel of Knowledge. A neutral party that cared little for squabbling between mortals and gods. He is revered by scholars for his rational mind and pursuit of study in the face of disorder, war and chaos. He is symbolized by a quill crossed over a piece of parchment.

Aporos: The Angel of Sun and Light. Aporos found kinship among the mortal races and wanted to grant them a greater existence. He is said to have pulled a star close to the Mystbourne Isles to help dissipate the mysts and create more lands for the mortals to dwell upon and to this day holds the star in place to benefit all who dwell in the light. His believers worship the Sun and believe that the flame is meant to guide mortals to their true path. He is depicted as a humanoid figure burning within a sun.

The Faceless One: A mysterious creature that existed long before the Court of Angels it is said to have the dominion of Memory and Time. A guardian of the flow of time and harbinger of memories The Faceless One has no known visage and instead said to be unknowable. The only known symbol attributed to this deity is that of a faceless humanoid wearing a long robe.

Ixion: A massive gryphon revered as a god that is said to live atop The Aerie. Said to be a protector of living beings and the sky it is often depicted with a symbol of a Gryphon claw gripping a mountain.

Urz: A primordial serpent that is said to be legend. This creature is revered among the Yuan-Ti as the serpent that will swallow the islands. It is depicted as the head of a snake.

New Gods

Naseal (Salt): The god of transition to death and the brother of the Sunken King. Naseal is known as an ever living ferry man who aids souls on their path to the gods they worship. His followers place a circle of salt on the bodies of the departed to help Naseal find them so he can usher their souls to the after life. His symbol is that of a circle of salt.

The Sunken King: The god of undeath and the brother of Naseal. The Sunken King is said to have granted himself and his brother immortality against his will. Believing that mortal beings should not be shackled by death his followers seek to achieve the Sunken King's dreams and create a world without "mortals". His followers will place a circle of bones on bodies to anchor souls to the world and keep Naseal from taking them to their rest.  He is symbolized by a circle of bones.

Azrila: The Goddess of deals also known as the Witch of the Seas. Azrila is known to make bargains with those who are willing to give up that which is of equal value in exchange. She also known to be protector of more natural things and the seas. Her bargains often require those to give up that which drives them further from nature. She is depicted by a tentacle wrapped around a rolled up scroll.

The Wayfairer: The god of adventure and luck. The Wayfairer is often worshiped by traders and adventurers who seek to be granted good fortune on their journeys. He is depicted often by a coin. One side features a sunken ship and the other is a ship with full sails.

Myr: The goddess of harvest and the boons of nature. Often worshiped by farmers she is said to be the daughter of Aporos and grants bounty to mortal races. She is depicted by a sun shining over a field of grain. It is a common superstition that by burying a piece of volcanic rock in your fields you will earn extra favor with Myr as it is seen as a sign of respect to Aporos.

Gallak: The god of entertainers and pit fighters. She favors those who take on the fighting spirit and do not back down from a challenge. Pursuing your best in the physical arts is the greatest thing mortal beings can achieve. His symbol is that of an acrobatic figure throwing a discus.

Vinden: God of the arts and music. Vinden is said to often take the appearance of a humble performer and those who hear him play his songs are blessed with vitality and inspiration. If one is lucky enough to have a portrait of themselves paint by Vinden it is said that they wont ever have a bad nights sleep. He is depicted by a lute and a paint brush.

Shana: Known as the the priestess of the night. She is the goddess if the moon and watcher of those in the night. Said to be served by owls people often pray to the owls and see their presence at night as a good omen they are being watched over by the goddess. She is depicted by the visage of an owl.